Supplementary Materials for

Adult-Infant Neural Coupling Mediates Selection of Socially-Relevant Stimuli for Learning Across Cultures


Section 1. Individual differences in infant learning across gaze conditions 
The main manuscript reports a group-level effect of speaker gaze, with significant learning detected only in the full gaze condition. However, this approach only considers the group-wise effect trends on learning, but individual children may vary in the extent to which they show this learning bias.
Accordingly, here, we analysed individual differences in infant learning patterns across the three gaze conditions (Full gaze, Partial gaze, and No gaze). For descriptive purposes, we defined an "advantage" condition for each infant, referring to the condition in which the infant's mean learning metric (measured as the looking time difference between nonwords and words) was positive and higher than that of the other two conditions. As shown in Fig S1a, out of 47 infants, 18 (38.3%) showed a Full gaze advantage, 15 (31.9%) showed a partial gaze advantage, 11 (23.4%) showed a No gaze advantage, and 3 (6.4%) showed no clear advantage pattern. Notably, the combined proportion of infants showing either a Full or Partial gaze advantage was 70.2% (33/47).
We further checked how infants' defined gaze advantage related to their overall learning displayed in the experiment. For each infant, we calculated their overall learning performance, averaged across all conditions and blocks. We then used a general linear model to compare the overall learning performance for the three advantage groups, controlling for age, gender, and country. Results showed that infants in the Full gaze advantage group demonstrated significantly better overall learning (t39 = 2.16, p < .05) than those in the partial and no-gaze advantage groups (Supplementary Fig. S1a). Accordingly, at the individual level, children with a bias toward learning in the Full gaze condition also showed stronger learning overall. 
Finally, we wished to visualise whether there was a trade-off (selectiveness) of learning in Full versus Partial or No gaze conditions. Accordingly, we plotted individual children’s learning in three-dimensional space so as to concurrently observe learning in the three gaze conditions (Supplementary Fig. S1b).  The visualization pipeline involved interpolation (using Matlab’s "natural" interpolation option), followed by Gaussian smoothing (? = 10) on the plotting grid. Finally, we overlaid overall learning performance as the fourth dimension, represented by a colour gradient (red = better learning). As shown in Fig 1b, highest learning in the Full gaze condition (circled area) is associated with high learning in the Partial gaze condition but low learning in the No gaze condition. This result suggests that individual infants who selectively learn in the Full gaze condition may also concurrently learn in the partial gaze condition, but do not learn in the complete absence of gaze. As previously noted, high learning in the Full gaze condition is also associated with good overall performance in the experiment (dark red colour).

Supplementary Fig. S1. Individual differences in learning and their relationship with overall learning performance across gaze conditions. (a) The bar plot shows the distribution of learning advantages (adv) and overall learning performance. Specifically, 38.3% of infants demonstrated a Full gaze advantage, 31.9% showed a Partial gaze advantage, and 23.4% had a No gaze advantage. The points with error bars represent mean overall learning performance (±SEM) for each advantage group, showing that the Full gaze advantage group had significantly higher overall learning performance (p < .05). (b) Three-dimensional surface plot displaying a “trade-off” in learning between Full gaze (x-axis), Partial gaze (y-axis), and No gaze (z-axis) conditions, with overall learning performance (mean across three conditions) represented by the colour gradient.


Section 2. Analysis of additional attention measures 
In section 2.1 of the main manuscript we report the results of one of three measures used to assess infant visual attention during the familiarisation phase: total duration of visual attention to the screen. Here, we report results from two other measures of visual attention: number of gaze-to-screen onsets (number of times infants shifted their gaze toward the video stimuli) and average gaze-to-screen duration (the average time spent looking at the videos per look). Consistent with findings for total duration, number of onsets and average duration demonstrated a significant country effect (see Fig S2a). Singaporean infants exhibited higher levels of attention compared to UK infants (t282 = 5.21, p < .0001 for number onsets and t282 = 2.00, p < .05 for average duration). Consistent with the total duration metric, no significant differences were found across gaze conditions for either measure: For number of onsets, t280 = 1.20, p = .23 for Full vs. Partial gaze, t280 = 1.01, p = .31 for Full vs. No gaze and t280 = -0.20, p = .84 for Partial vs. No gaze; for average duration, t280 = 0.26, p = .80 for Full against Partial gaze and t280 = -0.71, p = .48 for Full vs. No gaze and t280 = -0.96, p = .34 for Partial vs. No gaze. Furthermore, similar to total duration, neither number of onsets nor average duration exhibited significant correlations with learning under any gaze condition. These alternative attention results are visualized in Supplementary Fig. S2b-c.

Supplementary Fig. S2. Results for two additional visual attention measures: number of onsets and average duration of looks to the screen. (a) Significant country effect: SG infants exhibited higher attention levels compared to UK infants. (b) No significant differences in attention measures were observed across gaze conditions. (c) No significant correlations were found between attention measures and learning outcomes for any gaze condition.


Section 3. Partial least squares (PLS) analysis of learning in the delta and theta EEG bands
To examine whether the key analyses performed on the alpha band were also observed in other EEG frequency bands, we conducted identical partial least squares (PLS) analyses using neural connectivity (GPDC features) computed in the infant delta (1-3 Hz) and theta (3-6 Hz) bands. Following the analytical procedure detailed in the main text for the alpha-band (Fig. 4), we used PLS analyses to predict both infant learning and CDI gesture scores—the two metrics that showed significant relationships in the alpha band.  Identical criteria for significance were adopted, namely when model performance (R2) exceeded the 95% CI upper bound of the surrogate data performance.
Consistent with the alpha band results, adult-infant (AI) GPDC in both delta and theta bands significantly predicted infant learning. However, unlike the alpha band results, neither delta nor theta band infant-infant (II) GPDC showed robust prediction of CDI gesture scores. II GPDC in theta and delta bands also did not predict infant learning. These results are shown in Fig S3. Therefore, the contribution of interpersonal neural coupling to infant learning appears to be broadly observed across multiple EEG frequency bands, whereas the relationship between within-infant coupling and language scores appears to be frequency-specific.

Supplementary Fig. S3. Identifying neural predictors of infant learning and language development (CDI) in delta and theta bands. (a) Upper panel: Prediction of learning and CDI-gesture against a surrogate distribution for II GPDC and AI GPDC, in delta band using partial least square (PLS) regression. Only AI GPDC showed significantly better performance than the 95% CI upper bound of the surrogate data performance ("*" indicates p < .05). Lower panel: Prediction of CDI gesture scores (CDI-G) against a surrogate distribution for II GPDC and AI GPDC in delta band. No significant effects were detected. (b) Upper panel: Prediction of learning and CDI-gesture against a surrogate distribution for II GPDC and AI GPDC in theta band using partial least square (PLS) regression. Only AI GPDC showed significantly better performance than the 95% CI upper bound of the surrogate data performance ("*" indicates p < .05). Lower panel: Prediction of CDI gesture scores against a surrogate distribution for II GPDC and AI GPDC in theta band. No significant effects were detected.

Section 4. Channel-level analysis of gaze modulation of adult-infant (AI) GPDC strength
In section 2.2 of the main manuscript, the multivariate PLS analysis identified a significant relationship between AI GPDC and infant learning, which is in turn modulated by speaker gaze. As a supplementary analysis, this section further examines whether individual adult-infant (AI) and infant-infant (II) channel-level connections show local modulation by speaker gaze. Only significant connections were entered into this analysis (following the previously described thresholding procedure). We performed separate LME analyses on each connection to assess for an effect of gaze (see Fig. S4). Multiple comparisons were addressed using BHFDR corrections. Bonferroni corrections were also used for generating the thresholds of p-values in Fig. S4a. This stringent analysis revealed that only one AI connection—from the adult’s Fz channel to the infant’s F4 channel—showed modulation by gaze. No individual II connections showed significant gaze effects Specifically, the adult Fz to infant F4 connection showed significantly higher connectivity strength in the Full gaze condition compared to the other gaze conditions (t221 = 3.48, BHFDR-corrected p-value of 0.048).
Supplementary Fig. S4. Gaze-Modulated Adult-Infant (AI) GPDC Strength. (a) T-value distributions from the linear mixed effects (LME) analysis, indicating the strength of gaze modulation. Blue bars represent adult-infant (AI) GPDC, and orange bars represent intra-infant (II) GPDC. The dashed lines indicate the thresholds for significance after Bonferroni correction ("*" indicates p < .05.). (b) Schematic topographic representation of the significant AI connection from the adult’s Fz channel to the infant’s F4 channel. (c) Bar plot comparing the mean GPDC strength of the significant Fz-F4 AI connection across Full, Partial, and No gaze conditions.

Section 5. Infant neural-speech entrainment does not explain learning
To assess the relationship between neural-speech entrainment (NSE) and infant learning, we conducted a PLS regression analysis. The five NSE features identified in Results Section 2.3 as being reliably above chance were concurrently entered as inputs to predict infant learning. Performance of the real NSE data were compared against a surrogate distribution (see Materials and Methods section 4.4). As shown in Fig S5, NSE performance did not exceed the 95% CI upper bound of the surrogate distribution, supporting our conclusion that NSE, despite being modulated by speaker gaze, does not significantly explain infant learning in this experiment. 

Supplementary Fig. S5. Neural-speech entrainment (NSE) does not explain learning. Prediction of learning using partial least square (PLS) regression and comparison against surrogate distribution. NSE (purple line) did not show higher performance than the 95% CI upper bound of the surrogate data performance (grey area: 95% CI, black line: mean), with the five NSE identified in Results Section 2.3 features concurrently as inputs in the PLS regression model.


Section 6. Non-significant effects of country on learning and neural features of interest
This study includes two datasets collected from infants in the United Kingdom (UK) and Singapore (SG). To systematically test for an effect of country in the measurements, we used three LME models (Supplementary Table. S1) to test for the primary features of interest in the final mediation model (infant learning, neural-speech entrainment (NSE) at delta band in channel C3 and adult-infant neural connectivity (AI GPDC, loadings of the first PLS components in predicting learning), see Fig. 6a). The model included age, sex, and country as fixed effects, and participant ID as a random factor:
LME model:feature ~ age+sex+country +(1?ID)				(1)
The results showed no significant relationship between country and any key feature analysed in the mediation model, confirming the generalisability of the conclusions across different countries and cultural backgrounds. Thus, infants from both countries were treated as a single group in all further analyses. Supplementary Table. S1 summarizes the t-values, degrees of freedom (DF), and p-values for the country effect in the LME analyses of the primary features.

Supplementary Table. S1. Statistical analyses of country effects in LME models. In the LME models used in this study, age, sex, and country were included as covariates, while participant ID was treated as a random variable. The table below provides the statistical results for the country effect, examining its significance in relation to key dependent variables of interest throughout the study.
Dependent variablest-value of country factorDFP-value of country factorInfant learning0.852940.39NSE (Delta band in channel C3)1.401130.16AI GPDC (1st loadings in PLS)-0.762220.45



Section 7. Supplementary results of mediation analyses
In the mediation models, data from the three gaze conditions were combined rather than modelled separately, as condition was assumed to influence learning indirectly through the predictor variables rather than having a direct effect, which was verified in result Section 2.4. Age, sex, and data-acquisition country were included as covariates, while participant identifier codes were entered as a random factor to account for inter-individual variability and repeated measurements. This section supplements the mediation model results presented in main text by providing details of alternative analyses using different NSE components and with II GPDC respectively.
Performance of different neural-speech entrainment features in the mediation analyses
NSE was analysed using the five significant features identified in Fig. 5b. Among these, delta C3 entrainment, which showed effects in the mediation model, is reported in the main text and shown in Fig. 6. The LME parameters for this model are detailed in the table below, alongside additional models where delta C3 is replaced with the other four significant entrainment features (theta F4, theta Pz, alpha C3 and alpha Cz). These supplementary analyses confirm that entrainment does not explain learning outcomes, for all features tested. However, the specific relationship between Full gaze, entrainment, and adult-infant neural synchrony (Fig. 6) is unique to delta C3 entrainment.

Supplementary Table. S2. Performance of other NSE features in the mediation model, as assessed via linear mixed-effect (LME) models. 
Independent variablesDependent variables? (SD)DFt valueP-valueFull gaze to entrainmentFull gazeEntrainment (delta C3)0.40 (0.18)1122.28< .05Full gaze to entrainmentFull gazeEntrainment (theta F4)0.10 (0.19)1120.51.61Full gaze to entrainmentFull gazeEntrainment (theta Pz)0.22 (0.19)1121.13.26Full gaze to entrainmentFull gazeEntrainment (alpha C3)0.37 (0.19)1121.95.05Full gaze to entrainmentFull gazeEntrainment (alpha Cz)0.36 (0.19)1121.86.07Entrainment to learningEntrainment (delta C3)Learning-0.12 (0.10)112-1.22.23Entrainment to learningEntrainment (theta F4)Learning-0.05 (0.10)112-0.48.63Entrainment to learningEntrainment (theta Pz)Learning-0.09 (0.09)112-0.97.33Entrainment to learningEntrainment (alpha C3)Learning-0.07 (0.09)112-0.77.44Entrainment to learningEntrainment (alpha Cz)Learning0.15 (0.09)1121.64.10
Using II GPDC in place of AI GPDC in the mediation analyses
Here we provide supplementary analyses to examine whether replacing AI GPDC with infant-to-infant GPDC (II GPDC) would yield comparable mediation results. Similar to the AI GPDC analysis, the first II GPDC PLS component (regressed against learning) was used in this analysis. The results showed that although II GPDC was related to learning (as identified through the PLS analysis), this path did not provide an indirect effect from gaze to learning. Specifically, the indirect effect of the pathway: Gaze ? II GPDC ? learning, was not significant (indirect effect: ? = 0.06 ± 0.25, p = .82; direct effect: ? = 0.17 ± 0.13, p = .19) as estimated by 1,000-times bootstrapping. It should be noted that the direct path assessed here between II GPDC and learning is assessed in isolation, and thus differs from the analysis performed in results section 2.2. In the main analysis, we included additional surrogation test, bootstrapping, and cross-validation steps to specifically assess a double-dissociation between AI and II GPDC prediction of learning and language scores. 

Supplementary Fig. S6. An alternative mediation model in which the AI GPDC component is replaced by the II GPDC component. The results demonstrate that the II GPDC component does not support an indirect mediation effect between gaze and learning. 



Section 8. Participant details
Supplementary Table S3 presents the demographic characteristics of the UK and SG cohorts. Group differences were assessed using the chi-square test for categorical variables and the Welch’s two sample t-test for continuous variables. No significant demographic differences were found between countries. Note that parental education information was missing for some participants (3 for UK and 1 for SG). 

Supplementary Table. S3. Demographic characteristics and statistical comparison between UK and SG cohorts (mean value ± standard deviation).
UK cohortSG cohortP-value(N = 29)(N = 18)Age (days)281.83 ± 19.28293.83 ± 20.47.05#Sex (F / M)12/177/11.87Maternal age at birth of child (years)32.78 ± 4.0432.00 ± 4.21.55Maternal education levelSchool: 4School: 4.39Undergraduate: 10Undergraduate: 10Graduate: 13Graduate: 3Paternal education levelSchool: 6School: 5.35Undergraduate: 8Undergraduate: 8Graduate: 12Graduate: 4Infant Communicative Development Inventory (CDI) gesture scores7.50 ± 6.058.24 ± 5.07.65#: Exact uncorrected p-value = .0538, not significant. 




Supplementary Table. S4 presents details of participants who contributed data to the analysis.
Supplementary Table. S4. Participant Data Inclusion and Exclusion Summary. 
Data Inclusion & exclusionUK sample sizeSG sample sizeNotesParticipants recruited3520Excluding participants who failed to complete a minimum of one familiarisation phase + testing phase per gaze condition2919Excluding participants with data affected by accidental software/hardware failures2918Data from these participants used for behavioural analysisExcluding participants with fewer than 10 valid 1-second EEG epochs2715Data from these participants used for EEG analysis

Section 9. Syllable set, video recording, and quality control for artificial languages
Three distinct sets of syllables were created for the three languages used across the three gaze conditions, with each word composed of three syllables.  The syllable sets (words) in three language sets are provided in Supplementary Table. S5 below.
During the familiarization phase, the continuous speech stream that infants heard had the following structure: each first syllable of a word was always followed by its corresponding second and third syllables, and each second syllable was always followed by its corresponding third syllable. However, after the third syllable of any word, the first syllable of any of the other three words could occur. 
Supplementary Table. S5. The syllable sets (words) in three language sets.
Language setWord 1Word 2Word 3Word 4Set 1pe-tu-doki-bu-todi-lo-gaku-re-paSet 2po-du-geti-be-kago-lu-tade-ra-biSet 3pi-ba-gute-ko-dagi-la-boke-ri-puTo reduce acoustic variation across the nine stimuli recordings (3 languages x 3 gaze conditions) the speaker heard a tone of target pitch and intensity as a guide prior to the recording of each stimulus video. Differences in intensity were later removed by digital equalisation, with loudness equalised to a playback volume of 61dB. To further control for variations in pitch, each recording was divided into samples of ten syllables and the mean pitch of each sample was recorded (using Praat software). These samples were then averaged to calculate the mean pitch for each recording. Each infant was assigned to one of three presentation sequences. Each of these was created to include all three languages, each in one of the three gaze conditions, and with no significant difference in pitch between the three recordings (to achieve this balance two recordings were not used). Across the three presentation sequences the language/gaze condition pairings were counterbalanced, as was the order of the gaze conditions, as shown in Supplementary Table. S6 below.


Supplementary Table. S6. Languages and gaze conditions were combined to create three presentation sequences, counterbalanced for order of gaze conditions and pairings of gaze condition and language set. Each infant was assigned to a single presentation sequence.

Presentation Sequence 1Presentation Sequence 2Presentation Sequence 3Language Set111Gaze ConditionFullPartialNoMean Pitch (Hz)160.1159159.9Language Set233Gaze ConditionPartialNoFullMean Pitch (Hz)159.2158.8159.5Language Set322Gaze ConditionNoFullPartialMean Pitch (Hz)158.8158.6159.2P-Value for Variation in Pitch across the 3 gaze conditions:0.340.610.73


Section 10. Experiment setup details
The experiment took place in a specially designed testing area (Supplementary Fig. S9). Infants sat on their mother's lap, facing a large 49" flat screen monitor positioned 50 cm away. Two identical speakers were symmetrically placed 10 cm in front of the screen, 86 cm apart. A video camera below the monitor recorded the infant's behaviour, streaming live footage to researchers outside the area. During the Familiarisation phase, infants saw a life-sized video of a female adult speaker's face on a large central screen (Fig. 1a). The mother wore a visor and headphones throughout the experiment to ensure that her own responses would not influence the infant’s behaviour and responses. 
The 60-second Familiarisation video was divided into three equal 20-second videos, interspersed with short cartoon sequences to maintain the infant's focus. In each Familiarisation video each of the four “words” occurred 15 times and each word transition (such as word 1 being followed by word 3) occurred 5 times. 
The insertion of cartoon sequences during Familiarisation slightly reduced some word transitions from 5 to 4 occurrences. To avoid potential confounds, syllable strings spanning these affected boundaries were not used as nonword test items.

Supplementary Fig. S8. Structure of a block for an example infant. This block was then repeated in identical form twice more to increase the infant’s exposure to the language material. Each block lasted around 10 minutes and infants were offered a short break between blocks.
1st Condition
Language 1 - Full Gaze2nd Condition
Language 2 - Partial Gaze3rd Condition
Language 3 - No GazeFam.TestFam.TestFam.Test60 second video4 test words:
2 “words” 
2 non-words60 second video
4 test words:
2 “words” 
2 non-words60 second video
4 test words:
2 “words” 
2 non-words






Supplementary Fig. S9. Experiment setup. The experiment was performed in a specially designed booth. During the experiment, the infant was seated on mother's lap, facing large screen displaying life-sized pre-recorded videos. Audio speakers symmetrically placed on sides. Camera below screen records infant behaviour.





Section 11. Testing phase setup details
In the testing phase, infants remained in the same position as for the familiarisation phase. The adult speaker appeared pseudo-randomly on either the left or right side of the screen, repeating a single test item 12 times. These test items were either "words" or "nonwords" (three syllables spanning a word boundary) from the artificial language. The repetition of the test items was separated by a pause of 900 msec of silence accompanied by a black screen to ensure that the infant perceived repetition of the item that was being tested and not a repetition of a shifted sequence of syllables. For example, if the item "pe-tu-do" (hyphens indicate within-word boundaries) is repeated "pe-tu-do pe-tu-do pe-tu-do…" then infants may perceive a repetition of "tu-do pe" or "do pe-tu" instead of "pe-tu-do". By inserting a pause, the perception of the correct word item "pe-tu-do" was ensured. Test items were cropped from the familiarisation phase and so shared the acoustic properties of the familiarisation video.
Presentation of these test item videos occurred either on the far left or far right side of the large screen and only began once the researcher had confirmed that the infant had orientated to the still image of the speaker’s face displayed on the relevant side. The accompanying audio was only played from the speaker on the same side as the video to preserve spatial congruency. Nine 4-item test sequences were devised (with counterbalanced ordering of word/non-word and left/right side presentation) so that the infant saw a different test sequence for each testing phase (3 languages x 3 presentation blocks). Apart from the different test sequences, the three presentation blocks seen by each infant were identical.
Infants who completed all three blocks were tested on a total of 36 test words, 12 in each condition.
Throughout the experiment, the infant's gaze was monitored via the camera and the looking status towards the fragment videos was manually annotated with frame-by-frame precision (see Supplementary Materials Fig. S9). If an infant looked away from the test video for more than 2 seconds, the trial automatically ended. For analysis, we excluded trials with extreme outliers of looking time that exceeding the mean length by 2.5 standard deviations, as well as any testing phases lacking both valid "word" and "nonword" looks. This resulted in the exclusion of 2.28% of trials. The 2.5 SD threshold was chosen as a moderate outlier criterion, with the observed learning during Full gaze remaining significant under other thresholds (p < .05 for the significant learning in Full gaze under 2 SD threshold, and p < .05 for the significant learning in Full gaze under 3 SD threshold).

Supplementary Fig. S10. An example of an infant during the testing phase, while gaze direction was annotated with frame-by-frame precision. This was done to accurately estimate the amount of time infants spent orientated to the half of the screen where the word or nonword fragment was presented. The left image shows an infant looking at the test item on the left portion of the screen whilst the right image (taken 1 frame/30msec later) shows that gaze has been diverted to looking straight ahead. Permission for use of the identifiable photo has been granted by the parent.


Section 12. EEG data retention
Table S7. Breakdown of EEG data retention (mean and standard deviation across participants) at different processing stages.
UKSingaporeOverallTotal EEG duration (s)3380 ± 13613421 ± 12553395 ± 1309 Total attended28.2% ± 13.8%51.3% ± 11.8%36.4% ± 17.1%After automated rejection26.1% ± 12.4%45.3% ± 13.2%32.9% ± 15.6%After visual inspection26.1% ± 12.4%45.1% ± 13.5%32.9% ± 15.6%
The average percentage of attended data per infant across all familiarisation phases was 36.4% (SD = 17.1%). The mean percentage of attended familiarisation was lower in the UK dataset (28.2%, SD = 13.8%) compared to the Singapore dataset (51.3%, SD = 11.8%), t40 = -5.5, p < .0001. 

Automated noise rejection (followed by visual inspection) resulted in rejecting an average of 8.3% (SD = 10.0%) of the attended epochs, with no significant differences in the mean percentage of noisy epoch rejected in the UK (6.2%, SD = 6.8%) and the Singapore (11.9%, SD = 13.5%) datasets, t40 = -1.8, p = .08.

We found no significant effect of gaze condition on EEG rejection ratios in either country. One-way ANOVA tests yielded non-significant results for both the UK dataset (F2,78 = 0.20, p = 0.82) and the Singapore dataset (F2,42 = 1.22, p = 0.30), confirming that the total quantity of usable EEG data did not differ across conditions.  

To verify that there were more noisy epochs in the unattended compared to the attended Familiarisation segments, we subjected the unattended segments to the same automated noise rejection procedure. Indeed, a higher percentage of noisy epochs were rejected in the unattended data overall, 31.55% (SD = 22.76%), indicating that the attended data segments were of higher quality (e.g., showed less motion artifacts) than unattended data segments.



Section 13. Generalised partial directed coherence
The formula for generalised partial directed coherence (GPDC) is given as:
    ?GPDC?_ij (f)=(1/?_i  |A_ij (f)|)/?(?_(k=1)^N??1/??_k?^2  |A_kj (f)|^2 ?)					(1)
Where ?GPDC?_ij (f) is the Generalised Partial Directed Coherence from channel j to channel i at frequency f. A_ij (f)  is the Fourier transform of the multivariate autoregressive (MVAR) model coefficients at frequency f, presenting the directed flow of information from Sender j to receiver i. ?_i is the standard deviation of the innovation process of channel i. N is the total number of channels in the system.
For the MVAR GPDC analysis, parameters were selected based on a-priori theoretical considerations and empirical testing:
1. We set the model order to 7 for our multivariate autoregressive (MVAR) modelling, which determines how many previous time points are used to predict current values. This order was selected based on the Bayesian Information Criterion to optimize model fit while preventing overfitting for our 1.5-second windows (with 200 Hz sampling rate).
2. We selected the Nuttall-Strand unbiased partial correlation function for the MVAR method, on the basis of its robustness when used with shorter, potentially non-stationary EEG signals in infant populations (Marple Jr, 2019).
3, The 1.5-second window length with 50% overlap balances temporal resolution with frequency stability, capturing around ten cycles of alpha oscillations per window. The 256-point FFT provides adequate frequency resolution (0.67 Hz) for distinguishing relevant frequency bands.
Additionally, here, we provide a comparative analysis showing that GPDC offered superior sensitivity compared to other connectivity metrics (PDC in this example), particularly in the alpha band. Unlike the GPDC results presented in Fig. 3 of the main text, using PDC as an alternative connectivity measure (see Supplementary Fig. S11) produced spurious significant connections in the infant-to-adult (IA) direction (5 out of 81 connections), even after correction for multiple comparisons (BHFDR). These connections were spurious as the adult EEG was pre-recorded and thus no true infant-to-adult connections should exist. This supports the choice of GPDC as a metric for interpersonal connectivity analysis, consistent with our previous study (Leong et al., 2017).


Supplementary Fig. S11. Ranked PDC strength for individual real connections (colored lines) as compared to their surrogate data (black lines: mean; grey areas: 95% CI). Connections were deemed significant if the real data exceeded the 95th percentile of the surrogate distribution, with Benjamini-Hochberg False Discovery Rate (BHFDR) correction applied. Adult-to-adult (AA), infant-to-infant (II), adult-to-infant (AI), and infant-to-adult (IA) connections are shown separately. Notably, PDC analysis incorrectly identified significant IA connections, despite the impossibility of causal influence from infant to the pre-recorded adult EEG.

References for supplementary materials
Leong, V., Byrne, E., Clackson, K., Georgieva, S., Lam, S., & Wass, S. (2017). Speaker gaze increases information coupling between infant and adult brains. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 114(50), 13290–13295.
Marple Jr, S. L. (2019). Digital spectral analysis. Courier Dover Publications.

